# 迭代

## Iterator Types
Python supports a concept of iteration over containers.

One method **needs to be defined** for **container objects** to provide iteration support:
* `container.__iter__()`  
Return an *iterator object*.

The *iterator objects* themselves are required to support the following two methods, which together form the **iterator protocol**:
* `iterator.__iter__()`  
Return the iterator object itself.  
This is required to allow both containers and iterators to be used with the `for` and `in` statements.

* `iterator.__next__()`  
Return the next item from the container.  
It there are no turther items, raise the `StopIteration` exception.

#### `iterator.__next__()`
Return the next item from the container. If there are no further items, raise the `StopIteration` exception.

Python defines several iterator objects to support iteration over general and specific sequence type, dictionaries, and other more specialized forms.

#### `object.__iter__(self)`
This method is called when an iterator is required for a container.  
This method should return a new *iterator object* that can iterate over all the objects in the container.
*Iterator objects* also need to implement this method; they are required to return themselves.

### Generator Types
Python's **generators** provide a convenient way to implement the *iterator protocol*.  
If a container object's `__iter__()` method is implemented as a generator, it will automatically return an *iterator object* (technically, a generator object) suppllying the `__iter__()` and `__next__()` methods.

#### `iter(*object[, sentinel]*)` builtin function
Return an *iterator object*.  
Without a second argument, *object* must be a *collection object* which supports the *iteration protocol(the `__iter__()` method*;
or it must support the *sequence protocol(the `__getitem__()` method and the `__len__()` methond)*.  
If it does not support either of those protocols, `TypeError` is raised.

If the second argument, *sentinel*, is given, then *object* must be a callable object.  
The iterator created in this case will call *object* with no arguments for each call to its `__next__()` method;
if the value returned is equal to *sentinel*, `StopIteration` will be raised, otherwise the value will be returned.